>> Regina Meredith: Baby
Boomers are among the most
high-maintenance
people in the world.
It's true that science
and technology are
making it possible
to slow the aging process,
but the Boomers want more.
We want to feel 30 at 60.
How real is this
as an expectation?
Nick Delgado has studied
and worked alongside some
of the most prominent people
in the world of wellness
and anti-aging and says there
are genuine breakthroughs
to extend vibrant health
mentally and physically.
But first we have to
address our hormonal health.
Nick is here with us today
to share this wealth
of information.
And hormonal health has
so much misunderstanding
around it right now.
From the argument over HRTs
and you know the potential
for breast cancer in
women, to bioidenticals,
to homeopathic hormones.
And you look at it from a much
more holistic point of view
than just any one
of those things.
>> Nick Delgado:
Correct, you know I think
that when anyone wants
to optimize their body,
their mind it starts
with hormones.
Hormones affect literally
every organ, every cell.
The heart, for example,
has the most receptor cites
for testosterone, and so
it requires testosterone
to beat every day.
Every organ in the body depends
on a signal that's triggered
by the release of hormones
from various organs,
and these organs really start
to age; they start to shrink;
they start to decline.
And I don't think there's
a doctor in the world
who would deny that if
someone had hypothyroidism --
that is the inability...
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: ...to
produce enough thyroid --
that they wouldn't give them
at least a prescription.
>> Regina: Oh, they
-- absolutely.
>> Delgado: And the
concern I have is
that there's this
big controversy.
There's two categories.
One is there's performance
hormones
that have been abused
by certain...
>> Regina: Steroids, yeah.
>> Delgado: Yes.
And keep in mind the
street definition --
definition of steroids would be
in my mind excessively high
dosages, and typically altered
or chemically different than
what's naturally in the body.
Because see bioidentical
hormones are also classified
by textbook as steroids as well.
So what we're talking about,
though, is physiologic dosages.
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: Where the body
requires or sustains itself.
And in the case of where
I started with thyroid
if a person can't
produce enough thyroid --
and by the way, this can happen
at birth as -- as a child.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: One sign,
for example,
is I ask people often
do you have flat feet?
>> Regina: Oh.
>> Delgado: It's interesting
that the arch depends
on sufficient thyroid
to form completely.
And if you have flat
feet it's likely that...
>> Regina: Oh.
>> Delgado: ...early on
you had a thyroid disorder.
Now that's not the
only indicator.
Reflexes, a doctor who does
a very thorough physical
examination could check the
reflexes of the Achilles,
and take the little hammer, and
bounce it like in the old days.
And that's still very
clearly an indication of...
>> Regina: So if you don't
have a lot of response
that means low thyroid function?
>> Delgado: Low thyroid.
>> Regina: Interesting.
>> Delgado: So there's what's
called Hertoghe Syndrome,
the outer third of the eyebrows.
They start to thin.
And I ask people, do you pluck
them, or is that naturally thin?
Sometimes they barely even
have an eyebrow barely forming.
Look in the mirror and you'll
see the difference in people.
And Dr. Thierry Hertoghe, and
that's what it was named after,
is -- really represents
my mentor who trained
with three generations
of Hertoghe --
the father, the father
before him, Luke Hertoghe --
and they were endocrinologists,
and they were the first ones
to actually identify
deficiencies of thyroid.
So they discovered that
replacing thyroid hormones
over 100 years ago would reverse
certain forms of myxedema
which is severe fluid
retention...
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: ...and premature
aging, the skin, the body,
the -- the face is
all puffed up.
It would help reduce
the incidence of --
of mental retardation.
It would help physical and
mental wellbeing, energy,
and keeping the weight
under control.
And thermogenically, if you
have cold hands or feet.
When I do my events I ask
people, "Please shake hands
with the person next to you."
And I say, "Whoever's got the
coldest hands has the lowest
thyroid level."
>> Regina: Hmm.
>> Delgado: So we
know that thyroid
like other hormones affect
almost every function
of the body, but each hormone
has its specific ability.
So in the case of growth
hormone, or testosterone,
or DHEA, melatonin, all of these
people have heard of, estrogen,
of course, and testosterone.
What people don't realize is
these hormones do decline or,
let's be clear, they either as
we age get too high or too low.
>> Regina: So when
you say too high
that would automatically
indicate out of balance?
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: Classically
in the case of estrogen.
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: Most
doctors are trained
to measure what's
called E1, E2, E3.
There's three forms of estrogen
they measure in the blood,
estradiol, estriol, and estrone.
The problem is most doctors are
not aware there's 40 different
estrogen metabolites, and that's
typically usually only measured
in the urine.
Although, there's one
lab in the country I know
of that will do a
blood test for...
>> Regina: A lot of
them do saliva tests.
That doesn't cut it?
>> Delgado: That would
never measure the good
and bad estrogen.
>> Regina: So is urine actually
the more appropriate test?
>> Delgado: Dr. Hertoghe
and many
of the European doctors
are highly trained.
Dr. Jonathan Wright, yes.
We prefer to do all three forms.
We do -- we don't say that one's
more accurate than the other.
They each have their benefits.
>> Regina: You combine
them, yes.
>> Delgado: So we do a
saliva test initially
because it's the best
way to measure cortisol.
>> Regina: Just 24-hour
saliva samples?
Or...
>> Delgado: No, saliva...
>> Regina: ...just one?
>> Delgado: No, you
can do four samples.
>> Regina: Okay.
>> Delgado: Morning, midday,
afternoon, and evening.
>> Regina: Okay.
>> Delgado: And then you get
a curve, a diurnal curve...
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: ...because
hormones change through the day.
I love to have my clients
have these tests done
with the doctors I work with
initially before they've started
on any kind of bioidentical or
herbal intervention, homeopathic
or otherwise because saliva is
sensitive, but only to a degree.
Particularly it's best
for measuring cortisol
and DHA for adrenal function.
I would never want to ignore it
because a blood test is
not a very accurate way
to measure adrenal
function or...
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: ...cortisol.
You could add a few binding
proteins, but I will say
that the reason so many doctors
depend on blood tests is many
of the published studies
were done on blood tests,
and so they became very
accustomed, and there --
saliva's a new entry
into the game...
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: ...of
hormonal evaluation.
But more importantly 24 urine
test, aside from being able
to collect it in the morning
to the next day, I tell people,
"Listen," the doctor says, "Oh,
it's too difficult to get people
to collect for 24 hours."
Well, you have to
urinate anyway.
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: You have
to go to the restroom.
>> Regina: Carry the
little cup [laughter].
D Carry the cup, and
it's not a little cup.
It's you know take your
container, and the bag,
or the -- or-- or
you know the...
>> Regina: Do you do
it in different cups?
>> Delgado: No, it's all one...
>> Regina: Or does it
come -- a combination?
>> Delgado: ...big container.
>> Regina: Okay.
>> Delgado: And then you pour
it off to a little container...
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: ...send
it off to the lab.
And within three weeks we get
a breakdown of the cortisol
and all its metabolites,
the estrogen
and multiple metabolites.
When I say metabolites of
testosterone
or cortisol or thyroid,
that exert a far more
potent effect on the body.
They could very well be, in
the case of say estrogen,
what I call 16 alpha
hydroxyestrone,
the one that we know is
identified to be present
at high levels in women who
tend to have breast cancer,
or tend to develop
ovarian cancer,
or uterine cysts, or
fibroids, or acne.
It's interesting because most
of this dysbiosises were
imbalances due to xenoestrogens,
when drinking
bottled water from plastic.
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: Pesticide exposure;
unfortunately our whole
generation's been exposed
to generations of using
pesticides in our fields.
You know when they say organic
how do you know it hasn't
leeched into the underwater
table in the ground?
>> Regina: Yeah, exactly.
>> Delgado: So we -- we
go further, and we realize
that there is a good form of
estrogen within the metabolites,
meaning it's metabolized;
it exerts a safe effect;
it actually does what
we call apoptosis,
it stimulates your cells to
look for abnormal cancer cells.
It's been shown that this
good form of estrogen along
with estriol which is
a weaker form of one
of the primary estrogens
exerts a very positive effect
in prevention, or it's typically
found at a higher ratio..
Estriol's a three to one, to the
more potent estrogens.
And we find in young people
who are not using
birth control pills --
because birth control
pills are synthetic;
they come from horse urine;
and they don't even care whether
it's male or female horse.
Listen to me closely...
>> Regina: Oh, goodness.
Are you serious?
>> Delgado: ...China 3,00 years
ago actually would take the
urine from young
women ages 15 to 22;
they would concentrate the
urine, get all the hormones,
over 100 hormones --
and in China they knew 3,000
years ago how to optimize.
They would take those
hormones and give them
to the senior women in that
culture and reverse aging.
The men -- listen to
me closely -- would --
they would extract urine
from young men 15 to 22,
concentrate all the male
hormones along with the mixes
because there's a little bit of
female hormone in the male mix,
and growth hormone, EPO, all
these exotic, important hormones
that promote longevity and
health, and they gave it
to the senior men of
that culture to...
>> Regina: Interesting.
>> Delgado: ...reverse aging.
They knew this 3,000 years ago.
>> Regina: Interesting,
okay, now you've opened
up so many topics just in that.
Now one of them you --
you mentioned a little bit
ago is our adrenal function.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: And I bring that up
because it seems as though a lot
of people who end up on thyroid
medications often have adrenal,
or adrenal seems to somehow be
paired with thyroid function.
>> Delgado: True.
>> Regina: Can you comment on
that and what's going on there?
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: The relationship
between cortisol and
thyroid function.
>> Delgado: There
-- there's a group
of well-trained anti-aging
practitioners that's growing
through the American Academy
of Anti-Aging Medicine,
a nonprofit organization
of which
by the way I conduct a
forum for 26,000 physicians
around the world that read my
-- my blogs and answers
and articles and -- and videos.
And with that the -- the
doctors in this field recognize
that adrenal dysfunction
which is often -- the --
the chronic system
is chronic fatigue --
it could be you crave sugars
or salts; you eat excessively.
You eat a plate of
food, and you think
by all standards
you should be full.
I mean, it's filling
up your stomach,
but you're still hungry.
I have that problem
myself; I know.
So these people then
eat -- they'll overeat.
They'll eat to the point
where their body can't even
take any more food
into their stomach,
and it finally releases
some cortisol indirectly.
And see, without
cortisol you would die
within minutes, within hours.
So the body must have it.
So this is the source of
addictions to alcohol, drugs;
it could be a sexual addiction;
it could be a food addiction.
These addictions often
are caused by cortisol
or adrenal deficiencies.
Michael Jackson's
a good example.
He had extremely low adrenal
function, hypercortisolemia.
You could see just
the model look.
You know how -- the
sunken-in look?
You see that in people.
He's very skinny and thin.
And these people are not
necessarily overweight,
but what happens is they're
searching for something
to release cortisol, so in
his case it was the excitement
of being out entertaining,
right?
>> Regina: To get that release?
>> Delgado: Yes!
>> Regina: Yet he
didn't have enough
to really release to begin with.
>> Delgado: So what did he do?
He depended on massive
amounts of Coca-Cola
and caffeine-rich beverages.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: He drank
massive amounts.
It's well known after
his autopsy his heart was
perfectly healthy.
The doctor that took his life
was only assisting Michael
to get to sleep because
Michael begged him every night,
"I can't get to sleep."
He drank coffee all day,
the equivalent of Coca-Cola.
Thousands of milligrams
of caffeine.
>> Regina: Whoa,
thousands of milligrams.
>> Delgado: And that's
why he died.
>> Regina: I understand that.
>> Delgado: Well,
let's say hundreds.
I...
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: It would
border on 1,000 milligrams.
>> Regina: Wow.
>> Delgado: 200 milligrams
is a drug dose.
One cup of coffee,
100 milligrams is what
a doctor prescribes
to get a drug reaction
>> Regina: Oh, my God.
Well, I understand this
pretty well because I was born
without the ability
to create cortisol.
I create almost none, like
less than a baseline level.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: My entire life, and
I've learned about these things
and the temptation was always
to go for -- for coffee or...
>> Delgado: Sure.
>> Regina: ...sweets,
or something.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: And I've learned
how to modulate that.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: But I also have
to take hydrocortisone just
to survive, just to
get by day to day.
>> Delgado: There's
a new alternative.
>> Regina: Well, I'd
like to know about that.
I would like to know about that.
So what is it for not must
myself but other people?
This is a unique
situation; we get that.
>> Delgado: Sure.
>> Regina: But a lot of
people are adrenal fatigued
and would like to know as well.
>> Delgado: Addison's
disease is the most...
>> Regina: That's what I have.
>> Delgado: ...extremist form.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: Consider
that President Kennedy...
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: His physician knew,
and what an incredible
opportunity for him
because if his doctor hadn't
known I truly believe history
would have been altered
because he wouldn't have been
our President.
He couldn't have functioned
without proper hydrocortisone.
>> Regina: Yeah, absolutely.
>> Delgado: He was on regular
hydrocortisone therapy.
He also had extreme back pain
which -- you see cortisone,
which the original
book was written
by William McKinley Jefferies,
stated as Safe Uses
of Cortisone.
And he was a Virginia
professor, very well read,
and he identified this
-- this condition.
>> Regina: William
McKinley what?
>> Delgado: Jefferies.
>> Regina: Jefferies, okay.
>> Delgado: And you see,
Dr. Jefferies had
reviewed the literature.
In fact the Nobel Prize
around the 1950s was
awarded for the discovery...
>> Regina: I know, yes.
>> Delgado: ...of cortisone...
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: ...because
it was a cure
for arthritis, although
temporary.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: The drug
companies saw this,
realized it was a multi-billion
dollar industry, so they went
about and created synthetic
versions of prednisone,
and these synthetic versions --
for example, the body only
produces 30 to 40 milligrams
of -- of hydrocortisone a day.
That's what it needs to survive.
So they'd give them
five to 10, or 20,
or 40 milligrams of prednisone.
The problem is it has
a short half-life.
In normal hydrocortisone it --
it -- it's released in the body
and dissipates within
three hours.
But prednisone can
linger for days.
It stays in the system and
exerts too powerful an effect,
so you get these moon-faced.
You'd get people becoming
obese with prednisone.
It would cause dysfunction
and death.
So the people got
fearful of hydrocortisone.
So William McKinley
Jefferies rewrote his book,
and he changed the title.
>> Regina: What was it?
>> Delgado: He said,
Safe Uses of Cortisol.
And you see because cortisol was
different than hydrocortisone
because cortisone, by
the way, could be thought
of as prednisone and the
synthetic derivatives.
>> Regina: Not good.
I know the difference
between the two because I...
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: ...suffered
at the hand
of doctors putting
me on prednisone.
>> Delgado: So about
four years ago --
prior to that I had
really studied
with the world experts
Dr. Thierry Hertoghe,
Dr. Ron Rothberg, UC San Diego
professor, and we discovered
that from years before we could
measure urine, blood, and saliva
and monitor changes in
cortisol, diurnal changes,
and we could substitute
using natural low-dosage
of hydrocortisone.
We also found that the sun
exerts 50,000 lux of energy,
and every time you get
outdoors in the sun
without sunglasses
because your eyes...
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: ...have to
have the pineal gland
and stimulate LH-luteinizing
hormone
for testosterone and cortisol.
>> Regina: This is the first
time I've heard that --
its impact on cortisol
production.
>> Delgado: Tremendous impact.
>> Regina: This is amazing.
>> Delgado: I get outdoors.
I work out every morning
outdoors without my shirt on,
and as I lift weights
the sun is on my body...
>> Regina: Yes, and...
>> Delgado: ...at
sunrise or sunset.
>> Regina: ...you do
it in cool weather.
You're really big on
exercising in cool weather.
>> Delgado: You don't
want to overheat
when you're working out.
You must keep cool...
>> Regina: The hot yoga.
>> Delgado: ...conditions.
>> Regina: What's hot...
>> Delgado: You know
it might help people
to stretch a little better.
You know I -- so long as
there's a large amount of water.
I mean, dehydration's
a serious risk.
You've heard about
these people dying
in those tents in -- in Arizona.
>> Regina: Oh, yes.
>> Delgado: And you know
the moment you're --
you're depleted of water
-- I mean, we're --
we're like sacks of water
that should have been
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: ...and you know as
we're born we have about 70,
80% water, and as we get older
we shrink down like a prune
to -- to 50, 60% water.
Our brain shrinks
down and everything.
We must sustain -- and sustain
large amounts of water to...
>> Regina: Okay, so I didn't...
>> Delgado: ...be
young and healthy.
>> Regina: Yes, and thank you.
And I didn't...
>> Delgado: And wrinkle-free.
>> Regina: Yes, and
wrinkle-free.
And I didn't mean to
sidetrack you on that
because you were talking
about cortisol production.
You're exercising in the
morning, in the sun...
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: ...in the cool
air, fresh air, outdoors.
>> Delgado: Yes, yeah.
>> Regina: And that actually
stimulates cortisol production?
>> Delgado: Tremendous
natural release.
>> Regina: So for a
person who has no --
natural, normal kind of --
somewhat normal adrenal
function,
which a lot of people don't
anymore, but relatively normal,
they can just by doing
that alone start the day
by increasing their
cortisol function?
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: Amazing.
>> Delgado: You know
Regina think about it.
People love to vacation.
Where do they go?
>> Regina: The sun.
>> Delgado: They go to Hawaii.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: They go to the
Caribbean, and they're outdoors.
You know they're -- they're
white, and they get a tan.
It's not about the tan.
It's about the sun stimulating
the body and the adrenals
to release this natural cortisol
that they so desperately need,
and they feel wonderful.
>> Regina: Yeah, by the time
they get home it's, "Oh, my God.
Why can't we quit our lives
and live like this forever?"
Right?
>> Delgado: Yes, and you
know the number one cause
of sick days in our culture?
>> Regina: Lack of light?
>> Delgado: Low cortisol.
>> Regina: Low cortisol, yeah.
>> Delgado: And these
people, they develop flus,
colds, and bronchitis.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: And the solution,
according to William
McKinley Jefferies
and you read his book
Safe Uses of Cortisole,
and in my book  Grow
Young and Slim --
I also alluded to it in my
other book  Stay Young --
and that is that the body can
benefit from certain herbs.
I've assembled a certain
group of herbs, ashwagandha.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: We know that the
use of -- of garlic, and --
and adrenal cortex, and
luteum which targets LH and --
that is RNA and DNA
viruses, cherry extract.
There's a number of
wonderful things.
Caprylic acid targets candida.
I like to use polycosanol
that stimulates the --
the strength of the body
and lowers LDL cholesterol
and improves muscle density.
You know as we age one of the
risks is loss of muscle density
and -- and human frailty
and respiratory distress.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: If you lose too
much weight, and some people go
on a vegetarian diet,
and they think, "Oh,
I'm doing the right thing."
And they're eating a lot
of salads, and vegetables,
and some fruit, and they
don't understand the food
density requirement.
And as I eat a very
rich plant-based diet
for 35 years I know.
I take in large quantities
of food, four to eight pounds
of raw fruits and
vegetables a day.
I eat cooked brown
rice when I do eat...
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: ...or
cooked beans or peas.
And I -- I add avocado,
soaked nuts and seeds.
So I get a large amount
of natural calories
to sustain my daily activity.
I don't want to lose
my muscle density.
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: You can't fast
and burn up your body tissue.
>> Regina: And it's important
to note at this time that you --
you're a champion in
strength and endurance on --
on a global level here, and
you've done this on this diet.
It's not like you're loading
up on heavy proteins, per se.
>> Delgado: No, I
get my proteins
from my favorite source.
You want to know what it is?
>> Regina: Yes, please.
>> Delgado: Sweet
potatoes, yams,
and all the varieties
that come about.
The purple sweet
potatoes in Okinawa,
the longest-lived
people in the world.
They eat a lot of
purple sweet potatoes.
They eat oranges.
They eat fish only
twice a month.
People don't realize they're
not eating heavy amounts of --
of animal or any
fish-based product.
So my program that I use with
Simply Healthy is gluten-free,
dairy-free, soy-free, and
oil-free, but not fat free.
See, we use whole, natural
complex fats because you need...
>> Regina: Good.
>> Delgado: ...the fiber and
the essential fatty acids.
>> Regina: I can't
function without fats.
>> Delgado: Absolutely.
>> Regina: Yeah, I've tried it.
Doesn't work.
>> Delgado: Doesn't work,
and you wouldn't get enough
calories without which.
So I think that when we come
around full circle
cortisol works
like an orchestra with thyroid.
Thyroid's anabolic;
cortisol is catabolic.
So think of two kids on a
teeter-totter, and you have
to keep them balanced.
So if cortisol is supported all
of a sudden the anabolic part,
thyroid starts to drop.
And you can cause imbalances
by using just cortisol therapy.
So I have found that it takes
about six months to a year
with getting to bed
a little earlier
because the peak hormones are
produced from about 9 o'clock
at night 'til about
4:00 in the morning.
Don't push yourself through the
night to finish that project
and then exhaust your hormones.
Get to bed early; wake
up a little bit earlier.
Go outdoors in the daylight.
Work in the daylight
if you can.
>> Regina: Yes, yes.
>> Delgado: All these
things are going to help.
The thyroid, though,
has to be supported.
And so we support the thyroid.
Fresh fruit improves
thyroid function.
The warm weather
improves thyroid function.
The sun, again.
So we looked at the foods that I
like to recommend, but sometimes
if the thyroid's too
low we need iodine.
2 billion people in the
world are iodine deficient.
And now with Fukushima,
the biggest...
>> Regina: Oh, right.
>> Delgado: ...risk in
history to all of mankind.
And now we know that much of the
floor shellfish are dying off.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: Many of the
important sea animals are dying.
And if we eat those
animals, shellfish or fish,
when those particles concentrate
in our body we don't even have
to be within 20 feet
of Fukushima.
>> Regina: You bet.
>> Delgado: Those particles
are permanently in our body.
>> Regina: Okay, so Dr. Patrick
Flannigan, he's really big
on the iodine as well.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: And he was explaining
to me his favorite
combination is --
and I want to get
your take on this...
>> Delgado: Yeah.
>> Regina: ...and
find out yours --
is to use a substance
called Ioridol for --
Ioridol,which is
potassium chloride,
and then also nascent iodine
together for a balanced effect.
That's his particular protocol.
What do you feel about that?
And what is your
particular protocol?
>> Delgado: After...
>> Regina: Do you use kelp, or?
>> Delgado: Yeah, after
extensive review and access
to probably what I would say is
without a doubt the originators
of the whole concept of how do
we develop a thyroid deficiency,
but how do we treat it?
You need T1, T2, T3, T4.
T1 and T2 is iodine,
which potassium iodine --
not microgram dosages, but
as you mentioned Patrick...
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: ...you're going
to need milligram dosages.
You see the people who survived
Hiroshima were eating large
amounts of kelp and...
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: ...and miso soup.
And they were getting on average
of 10 to 20 milligrams of --
milligrams of iodine a day.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: So in -- in a --
I created a capsule
called rad iodine that has
about 20 to 30 milligrams.
In -- in this case 30
milligrams per capsule.
I'm creating...
>> Regina: And is
it 1, 2, 3, and 4?
>> Delgado: Yes, it has
tyrosine, which is the T1
and the T2, the iodine;
and T3 and T4 is not
within that product.
Another one that's -- that's
available, usually prescription,
westhroid, or you can
compound T3, T4 and not have
to use the -- the normal
derivatives of pig or cow,
and that can be compounded.
It's the allergic-producing
as well.
It's very pure.
>> Regina: That's
really good to know.
So it's called rad iodine
that you've had compiled?
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: Because also --
I mean, I follow the
radiation maps as well.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: I mean, we're
looking at airborne radiation...
>> Delgado: Unbelievable.
>> Regina: ...fish --
consumption through fish.
Our waters are contaminated.
The coasts of Canada
and California,
all the way down to South
America is contaminated,
and we have to deal with
the fact we're now living
in a radiation-rich environment,
and there are some elements
in there that shouldn't be
in there in addition to that.
So what I'm hearing from
you and virtually all
of the others involved
in that area of research,
we have to have iodine
supplementation now.
>> Delgado: It's a must.
Our children, our seniors
are the most susceptible.
>> Regina: Everyone, yes.
>> Delgado: Everyone, and since
everyone's basically deficient
due to bromide in breads
which depletes your iodine.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: It used to
be iodine in breads.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: There's
virtually no good source.
Dr. Susie Schuter
said she does a
spectroanlysis on all her
clients and her patients,
and now recently she's
seen this in alarming rate
of people exposed
with excessive amounts
of cesium, radioactive iodine.
They have radioactive particles
in their body now as we speak.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: Dr. Emil
Schandl is doing a test
for I think it's only about
$20 or so, and it'll measure
for a urine test and pick up
how much radioactive iodine --
not just radioactive iodine,
but cesium and all kinds
of other heavy metal or --
that is radioactive particles.
So we -- we have to
take this seriously now
because Fukushima has
not been shut down yet.
>> Regina: Oh, it's just --
they just took some
of those core pieces
out of reactor number
four yesterday,
and there's some really
nasty stuff under there...
>> Delgado: Yeah.
>> Regina: ...that
shouldn't be there.
So the fact is this is not
going to end anytime soon.
We are going to -- all --
the whole planet is
going to be exposed
to radiation. Everywhere.
>> Delgado: Probably close
to a million people died due
to Chernobyl and
the aftereffects.
>> Regina: Exactly.
>> Delgado: And we're
probably going to see --
I hate to predict how much more.
It's going to be
far worse than that.
>> Regina: Far worse.
>> Delgado: I'm -- I'm
taking the steps now
of a protective zeolite.
I use all -- I use...
>> Regina: That's
what they all...
>> Delgado: ...
I use spa.
>> Regina: ...all
the others are using.
>> Delgado: I use baking soda.
I've created some formulas that
will be released in a few --
few months, but cell
stabilizer which helps
to not only help estrogen
metabolism by the way,
which is back to our original
subject of hormones...
>> Regina: We're going to go
back to that in a minute, yeah.
>> Delgado: ...but it --
it really has been
proven with the B-17
that you know apricot seed.
I mean, there's some
things that people will say,
"Well, it's questionable."
>> Regina: Lay a trail.
>> Delgado: But -- but it --
you know the science is good.
And -- and we see that
these things can help.
I believe truly, like Bruce
Lipton, one of your guests...
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: ...that
the body depends
on what we call epigenetics.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: And he
clearly identified
that you could take a cell --
and by the way every day of the
week I look at people's blood
under a microscope, under
high-power microscopes,
so I see changes and transitions
over the last 35 years,
and I can tell you this,
that epigenetics is real.
When you remove the nucleus
of a cell the cell continues
to survive and function
like a digestive cell,
or a respiratory cell,
or a muscle cell,
and because it just has its
internal understanding...
>> Regina: There's
an intelligence...
>> Delgado: Yes, yes.
>> Regina: ...that
goes beyond that, yes.
>> Delgado: So what we
surround ourselves with,
and the nutrients we take
in, the air we breathe,
the purity of the water.
I advocate using
hydroponic food.
That may be the best solution...
>> Regina: Yes, I agree.
>> Delgado: ...because you can
cover the food, the fruits,
the vegetables, tomatoes.
You can grow everything and
not have these particles
which is in our airstream now.
>> Regina: Okay, and we have
chemtrails on top of that,
and so on and so forth.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: So we
won't even go there.
I've done shows on that.
But how does the
interaction with the sun work
when you have
hydroponically-grown fruit?
>> Delgado: It's
fine; it's fine.
>> Regina: Because you're not
going to get the full spectrum
of information from
the sun, but...
>> Delgado: You know...
>> Regina: ...you're
getting enough that...
>> Delgado: ...the smart growers
are using full-spectrum lights
inside the tents.
So...
>> Regina: That's good.
>> Delgado: So there
are ways to do this.
>> Regina: That's good.
>> Delgado: You know I --
I think the history of --
of farming unfortunately we
delegated it to other people,
and we say now when we're trying
to grow our own farm
people are just ignorant.
They have no clue
of how to grow.
There's...
>> Regina: There's some good --
there are some good
books out there.
>> Delgado: It starting
to happen.
>> Regina: You know, yeah.
>> Delgado: I'm growing
in my own back yard.
>> Regina: Yeah, yeah.
>> Delgado: I mean, I...
>> Regina: Yeah, I've
done that, and chickens.
>> Delgado: ...would have
thought I would have never done
it.
People are doing it out on
their porch of their apartments.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: I mean, you know
wherever you can do it grow your
fresh food.
>> Regina: In their front
yards where their --
their flowers used to be,
which I love seeing that.
I think it's a great trend.
>> Delgado: I -- I
sprout my nuts and seeds.
I let them grow.
I eat live food wherever
possible,
and protect it as
much as possible.
>> Regina: Okay, so
with that now we've --
we've talked about two of the
most important little parts
of the engine which are the
adrenals and the thyroid gland.
>> Delgado: And --
and the thyroid, yes.
>> Regina: Okay, now
let's get to the hormones
that we generally
tend to genderize.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: And look at
you know the testosterones
and -- and all of it, okay.
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: Estrogens and
so forth, progesterone.
>> Delgado: If I
were to tell you one
of the most effective
cures for cellulite
for women you'd be surprised.
>> Regina: What is it?
>> Delgado: Testosterone.
>> Regina: Well, that --
I guess that makes sense
because you have more
of it when you're young.
>> Delgado: Yeah.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: And you know women
who have had tubal ligation,
or hysterectomy, or they've
had their ovaries removed,
that's the primary site of
testosterone production.
And we've done women
a disservice
because we've removed
millions of women's organs,
and we give them
progesterone maybe
if they're lucky,
and estrogen back.
And it's not even natural
estrogen; it's synthetic
from a horse that's not even
a male or female gender,
and it's estrone, which
it should be estriol,
and it should be in the right
ratios, but that being said,
women need the testosterone
back.
That's why they become depressed
after they've had
these operations,
why as they get older
during menopause
or perimenopause they go
through cycles and changes.
So women could actually clear
up their cellulite certainly
with exercise and a
healthy plant-based diet.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: But testosterone
is amazing in helping
to reduce cellulite, amazing.
>> Regina: Okay, are you
talking pharmaceutical grade,
homeopathics, bioidenticals?
>> Delgado: You know the
exciting thing is I started
studying testosterone
replacement probably a better
part of 30 years ago.
When I first hit the wall
when I was in my 30s,
and I'll be 60 next year.
But when I first...
>> Regina: You look great.
>> Delgado: ...hit
the wall -- thank you.
When I first hit the wall I
noticed at age 38 I -- I just --
I lost my libido, my sex
drive; my muscle density wasn't
where it was when I'd
do the same workout.
I was feeling depressed.
I mean, I was gaining weight.
And I was doing everything
the same.
I was exercising,
eating healthy,
and I couldn't understand it.
And I found out my
testosterone was so low,
particularly the
free testosterone.
And Dr. Abraham Morgentaler
who is a Harvard professor
who teaches -- he's
one of our mentors
at the Anti-Aging
Universities and --
and Anti-Aging --
even this last week in
Las Vegas was sharing
with us the absolutely
essential need in men and women
for testosterone replacement.
It could be bioidentical cream.
It could be my favorite
testosterone pellets for me.
The women I think do
best with the cream.
And interesting enough
certain herbs that we've known
about for thousands of years,
Avina Sativa, milky green oats,
horny goat weed, Mucuna Purina.
I have a list of about 30 of
my favorite herbs that I shared
with the doctors this
last weekend before this.
And in my website,
and in my discussions,
and my books I teach which herbs
that you might be able to take
without even taking
prescription testosterone
and optimize your
free testosterone.
Because there's what's called
sex hormone binding globulin,
and it transports
all of your hormones.
And by taking and
consuming these herbs
in proper quantities they
attach to the binding protein
and release more of your
bioavailable cortisol,
more of your bioavailable
thyroid,
more of your bioavailable growth
hormone, and testosterone.
Your body will function youthful
with these correct
balance of herbs.
>> Regina: Okay, so let
me ask you this question.
This is very practical.
A lot of people watching
this, whether it's a woman,
thinking about, "Gee, my husband
has all those symptoms you're
talking about."
Or whether the woman has
these -- these symptoms...
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: ...is it something
if you're going the herbal route
that they can go onto your
site, take a look at this list
of herbs, and just start
adding them into their diet
and watch -- and by way
of their own evidence --
empirical evidence as to whether
or not this is working for them?
A lot of people I know,
particularly women,
no longer have health
insurance, and so we're --
you know we're on our own.
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: We're --
and we're talking
to an audience that's
pretty proactive,
and a lot of us don't
have health insurance.
We decided to go and
take responsibility
for ourselves, right?
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: So with that we
need to know practical ways
without bankrupting ourselves
as to how we can balance
these things back out.
Does -- is there the
information on your website...
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: ...to do that, then?
>> Delgado: Step one is free.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: They
go to our website,
and there's a wellness survey.
And the wellness survey has over
22 pages, a little cumbersome.
But it's -- it's page by page.
There's about 40 questions for
thyroid; about 20 questions
for cortisol; about 50 questions
for testosterone,
and down the list.
So we break all the key, major
hormones into categories.
So you take this questionnaire
before starting the herbs
and supplements, and we
see, based on your symptoms,
how deficient you are.
Now ideally you should do maybe
a saliva test that's around $99.
Do a 24-urine test
for about $235.
And if you have a blood test
we can arrange it with one
of our doctors to
get it ordered.
But all that being said,
if we match, as we've done
so for the last 30 years in --
in my practice in
working with our --
our students, and
clients, and doctors,
we get these test results back
after we match the questionnaire
and we do the history
and physical.
Put that all together, or at
least do the questionnaire
because it's about 80% sensitive
even if they don't do the test.
>> Regina: Oh, interesting.
>> Delgado: And it
will show them,
so I'm giving them free advice.
It'll work, and then take the
product; their symptoms improve,
and the doctor will be impressed
or they will be impressed
themselves and don't even have
to see the medical doctor.
Now I -- I usually don't
tell people don't work
with your doctor.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: But your doctor has
no clue about what we're saying.
>> Regina: Oh, no.
I mean, most people I
know don't have a doctor.
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: They really don't.
>> Regina: I mean, they --
they are renegades
from the medical system
because they've either
nearly been killed by them
or they're paying $700 a month
for a service they would
never use unless they were
in a car wreck, and
you have car insurance.
>> Delgado: True story, many of
the transformational leaders,
and I could name them, that
you know are proud to come
to see me tell me that
they prefer not to go
to the traditional route.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: And they come to
me because the doctors I work
with all look at herbal,
supplemental, diet, exercise,
the power of the mind.
And we figure out if there is a
need for a particular hormone.
We usually try and go
with a wild yam extract
so it's plant-based, and
the derivatives is identical
to what's already in your body.
And then we match
the physiologic dose,
and we monitor people
through these tests.
So many of the people who
normally say they don't want
to see a doctor, they're
proud to say you know,
"I go see Dr. Nick,
and he's a PhD."
I don't claim to be an MD, but
I oversee you know the program,
and the protocols, and each of
the doctors that work with us,
and/or clients that just
want to do it themselves
with questionnaires...
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: ...and online help.
>> Regina: That's
really what we need more
because the audience
watching this right now,
we're all individuals who choose
to take personal responsibility.
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: I think there
are very few who are looking
for a magic pill anymore.
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: And so I like that
about your work,
that you offer that.
So now you've just talked
about testosterone
and what's going on.
Let's talk about progesterone
for a moment because a lot
of women find out
they've been on HRT,
and they've got these
spikes of progesterone,
and now they're scared
because they're thinking
of the you know cancer.
So what's up -- what's
up with progesterone?
>> Delgado: Okay, the
women's health study
which used progestins -- again
a synthetic-derived coming
from horse and so forth, it's
just not even normal to what's
in the body -- did cause an
increased rate of breast cancer,
and other forms of cancers,
and heart attacks, and strokes.
And there was all kinds of --
of people just getting off
of hormones out of fear
because they were using
these pharmaceutical
synthetic-derived hormones.
But several studies prior
to in Europe and after,
large-scale studies using
bioidentical, natural
progesterone which you can get
as a cream
from wild yam extract,
and natural estriol.
But the thing is, what
people don't realize is
by using these -- or following
these studies that the incidence
of cancer was far less
than the general population
who did not use the
progesterone or estriol.
Not only did it not
equalize, but it was far less.
So there's protective
factors of these hormones
when used properly in the right
dosages and monitored correctly.
>> Regina: Interesting, so if
a woman were interested, and --
and they've already -- say
they've taken the test,
and we've already gotten an idea
of what our profile
is and what's needed.
And they needed to have access
to a wild yam-based
progesterone cream...
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: ...do you have to go
to get a prescription for that?
>> Delgado: No.
>> Regina: Where do you get it?
>> Delgado: It's...
>> Regina: Where do
you get these things?
>> Delgado: We have
it over the counter.
People can order it.
They can go to certain
health-food stores.
We like to get the ones that are
paraben-free and chemical-free
because some of the throwback
to most of the creams
on the market, even if they're,
quote, in a health food store,
they -- they are
grandfathered in,
some of these toxic
chemicals in the cream.
Even if it's a compounding
pharmacist...
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: ...I petition them,
and I request what is the actual
ingredients in the base cream
because sometimes there's
certain things there you don't
want to have on your body.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: So we produce
products and monitor
and evaluate, so I usually list
what I call the Amazon picks.
I list certain things that I
endorse or believe from years
of experience, and studying,
and knowing what is safe.
So progesterone is a
very important hormone,
but I think it's a mistake
to think you're going
to use progesterone
for estrogen dominance.
There's this mistaken
belief out there
that just take progesterone
when I have symptoms
of estrogen dominance, or I've
been taking birth control pill,
or I've been exposed
to xenoestrogens,
or I eat a high-fat diet
that can cause increase
in these harmful
forms of estrogens.
The truth is there's certain
natural herbs that come
from vital chemicals,
particularly
from raw cruciferous vegetables.
Dynomethane which is DYM, as
we're going to abbreviate,
and indole 3 carbinol comes
from raw bok choy, Napa cabbage.
It can come from raw
broccoli, Brussels sprouts,
so the whole cruciferous family,
but most people rarely ever
eat two pounds worth a day
like I do.
>> Regina: Sure.
>> Delgado: And if they
do take the supplements
that I have designed,
which shockingly I created
a product called EstroBlock.
I say shockingly; it cleared up
acne within two months of kids,
and it's selling all over the
world now because it's clearing
up their face because they
have hormonal imbalances.
>> Regina: Okay, I want to talk
about the EstroBlock and --
and I know some other
well-known people
in this field really
think highly of it,
and also the stem
cell supplement
and the stem cell max cream.
So okay, let's go -- first
let's go into the EstroBlock...
>> Delgado: Sure.
>> Regina: ...if you have
estro-dominance in your body
from eating too much soy,
or as you say plastic
bottled water and so forth.
>> Delgado: Right.
So let's -- let's be --
let's re-review the
possibility of that.
Let's say the person's smart;
they're not doing synthetic
birth control pills;
they're using natural methods
of birth control,
alternative methods.
They're not using
synthetic HRT...
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: ...estrogens
nor synthetic progesterones.
>> Regina: Okay.
>> Delgado: But they are still
using bioidentical estrogens
and bioidentical progesterone.
The problem is even the
bioidentical progesterone can
turn into one of the harmful
forms of estrogen downstream.
The biochemistry turns
eventually downstream to one
of these 40 estrogen
metabolites.
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: And most doctors
will never tell you this,
nor are they aware of it.
But I wrote the definitive
papers in winter of 2003,
and I did all the
research on cancer,
and the bioidentical
hormones, and the herbs.
So I believe that hormones
can be modified properly,
maybe like in ancient times.
We were designed to eat a
lot of raw, fresh, whole,
herbal plant-based foods,
and these herbs have a way
of modifying and protecting us
while we restore our hormones.
Ancient Chinese medicine
they were, as I mentioned,
drying the urine to
get the hormones.
But they weren't just
depending on that.
They were using herbal
and Chinese medicine
that goes back 3,000
years, and those herbs work.
I looked at Indian
herbs, Chinese herbs.
I studied the world.
I traveled all over the world,
and I met with the scientists.
And it's interesting. I'd go,
"You're Dr. So-and-so."
And you know they're researching
stem cells, and they'd look
at my name tag, "You're
Dr. Nick Delgado.
Wow!"
I mean, I was like I didn't
even know they knew me.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: So other countries
know me better than they do
in my own country.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: So all that being
said, it's exciting to know
that the natural wasabi
is 40 times higher
in isocyathyanase than broccoli.
So it has a protective
factor in the presence
of shifting the bad estrogens,
even from progesterone
and bioidentical, to
the good estrogens,
and then delivering
them out the body.
Wasabi, D-gluconolactone
which is similar
to calcium D-glucarate.
That's the patented version.
We use DYM, dymalmethane,
but I has to have a
delivery system along
with indole 3 carbinol.
And we use the correct dose,
because some people have
used indole 3 carbinol
at too high a dose, caused
some neurological issues,
so I always look at dosages.
>> Regina: So what does
this look like on your site?
What would the product
look like?
Because you're using a lot
of terms that most people...
>> Delgado: I'm sorry.
>> Regina: ...they're going
to have to rewind this...
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: ...and say, "Okay,
let me write that down again."
What does this show up as?
Do you have an -- this is
part of the EstroBlock?
>> Delgado: Yeah.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: They either
have regular EstroBlock
which is not a soy-based.
Some of the delivery
systems you would...
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: ...use a
soy lecithin delivery.
We don't. We're smarter
than that.
We knew that people might have
sensitivities to soy, or --
or colors, or chemicals,
or excipeients,
and additives, or
magnesium sterate.
All...
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: ...our
products are pure and clean.
So then I created
EstroBlock Pro.
And it's interesting, my staff
went, "Why are you doing this?
You're making a product that's
superior, three times stronger
than the EstroBlock you've
already released, and it's --
it's going to compete
with your own product."
And I said, "Well, some
people have cancer.
Some people have severe acne.
Some people are severely obese.
They need the triple strength.
They need the concentrations,
and they can get by with two
or three tablets instead of
having to take five or six
of the EstroBlock regular."
It was a slightly more cost,
maybe $10 more, but people...
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: It ended up
turning out that I was right.
Not that I'm right, and
you're wrong, but --
but people, the consumers
said, "Wow!
I can get this at --
at much less price,"
and there's literally EstroBlock
knock-offs now on the market.
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: They're
copying my name...
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: ...that
I came out in 2003
and actually had created the
science in early 2001, and --
and released the prototypes.
>> Regina: And this
goes for men, too.
This isn't just for women.
There is estrogen --
estrogen dominance in men
which is creating this lethargy,
and a little extra flesh
on the chest, and so forth.
Can you talk about that?
>> Delgado: Arnold
Schwarzenegger came to speak
at our event just two weeks ago.
His look-alike who in earlier
movies had some issues,
and he came to me.
He said the doctor wants
to do gynecomastia surgery.
>> Regina: Oh, no!
>> Delgado: They want to
do breast removal surgery.
>> Regina: Oh, no.
>> Delgado: Because most
of the body builders --
they won't tell you this --
they take so much
synthetic testosterone
that it causes abnormal
increase in estrogens.
And ironically men,
who initially they see
these commercials on TV,
you know low T, go to your
doctor and get testosterone.
Little do they realize,
particularly
if they're a little overweight,
if they take testosterone cream
or testosterone injections,
or they don't know
about what I'm going to share
with you how the herbs interact,
then what happens is they
start developing breast tissue.
They get big muscles, but
they get breast tissue, too.
>> Regina: Yeah, have to
wear a bro.
>> Delgado: And then they
start losing sexual function.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: And -- and a
whole host of problems.
So what I discovered
was change the diet;
they're eating way
too much meat.
And believe me, these big body
builders can get as massive,
trust me, eating a
plant-based diet.
Gorillas, look at
them, massively...
>> Regina: Exactly.
>> Delgado: ...the most powerful
animal -- animals on the planet.
They -- they absorb
large amounts of nitrogen
from nitrogenous-based plants.
I use a lot of nitric
oxide foods,
and we'll talk about that later.
Kale, Swiss chard, arugula.
It's just amazing what it
does for body building.
But all that being
said I was able
to help Arnold's look-alike.
Between you and I he
didn't need surgery.
>> Regina: Oh, good.
They just reduced on their own.
>> Delgado: Just
like EstroBlock...
>> Regina: So that's EstroBlock;
it's for men as well as women.
And everything still applies?
You go through in
-- in your system.
You take the test, you
know the self-test,
and then you can go through,
and you can have the analysis
via the -- the urine, the blood,
the saliva, and so forth.
>> Delgado: That's right.
>> Regina: Determine --
but anyway the point is
you've created something
that does counter that.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: Now let's
talk about --
we only have a few minutes left.
Let's talk about the
stem cell supplement.
It's Stem Cell Max
Cream for Women.
>> Delgado: Yeah.
>> Regina: Stem cells are
really the frontier right now
on many -- and they're --
it's showing up in
many different ways.
>> Delgado: Yes, I also
created a product that comes
in powder form called Stem Cell
Max, and medicinal mushrooms,
interestingly enough,
have been purported
to reduce the instances
of cancer by --
according to Dr. Fuhrman.
But we will say this,
that maitake mushrooms
have been published
to dramatically increase
the release
of your own body's stem cells.
We know that blue-green algae
releases your own body stem
cells, and beta glucans
from activated barley,
not the gluten-based barley,
and also some other derivatives
will increase dramatically your
release of your own
natural stem cells.
So I've gone about formulating
in powders which you put in a --
a chocolate base; it's a
natural cacao and carob,
and it really tastes great.
And I also put it
in some creams.
So people are noticing
the difference.
It -- it does...
>> Regina: Well,
how do they know...
>> Delgado: ...stimulate
the release of stem cells.
Their skin looks
better; they heal better.
Some of the doctors reported
to me scars after surgery
that they healed better.
Their -- their strength goes up.
Their body improves.
Rejuvenation...
>> Regina: What is the
source of the stem cells?
Because that's probably
the first question
on people's minds.
>> Delgado: Sure,
it's plant-based.
>> Regina: Plant-based?
>> Delgado: Yeah.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: Now see,
I have experimented
because in other countries
they allow umbilical --
umbilical-derived stem cells,
fat-derived stem cells.
I've -- trust me, I've
looked all over the world,
but there are some risks
from biological materials,
and I do not -- I caution anyone
who goes to another country
and tries to get fat-derived
stem cells or otherwise you need
to be with a qualified
practitioner who's under IRB
and has done a lot of research
because problems can happen.
But stem cells are
miraculous when used properly.
And they are stimulated
by altitude conditioning,
which next to our clinic
in Costa Mesa we have a
high-altitude conditioner.
Here you're up in
high altitude...
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: ...but you
see it has to go high
and low throughout the day.
It can't just be static.
You'll produce more stem cells
through altitude variations.
We call it c-vac.
>> Regina: Yeah, and this is a
much less expensive way to go
about it than to have adipose
tissue you know extracted
and all of that.
I mean, it's -- it's
-- I think it's going
to be a beautiful
thing in the future
to see what we do
with stem cells.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: But right
now it sounds
like it's very approachable,
affordable, and doable.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: Just one
minute or so.
Any final remarks you'd
like to make when we want
to take back our own health
profile and hormonal profile?
>> Delgado: You know there's a
list of books that I recommend.
There's tapes, and videos,
and educational material.
I've posted now somewhere close
to 500 different
videos and articles.
And we're going to be prolific.
And I'm so happy to be on
this show because I looked
at the guests that
you've had on,
and they're my favorites,
the people that I learn, and
study with, and train with.
So I think that we're
in the age now
where knowledge is
accessible, but you have
to have someone directing
you, a mentor or coach.
So if you feel comfortable
with our materials
on Delgado Protocol or Grow
Young and Slim then access it,
and utilize it, and
get the results.
>> Regina: Yeah, absolutely.
Well, thank you so
much for your time.
And you do, you have
a very rich site.
So I -- I appreciate
what you're doing...
>> Delgado: Than you.
>> Regina: ...and what you're
putting out there for us.
And -- and again,
you're doing it gratis.
I really appreciate that.
Thank you so much, Nick.
If your mojo is off go
to growyoungandslim.com.
You'll find loads of articles
on health and wellbeing
to start nudging your life back
toward more optimal performance
and healing.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.